[IMP] l10n_cl: Electronic Invoicing eCommerce and POS (#6408)
odoo/documentation: content/applications/finance/fiscal_localizations/chile.rst

   :align: center

eCommerce electronic invoicing
------------------------------

To install the :guilabel:`Chilean eCommerce` module, go to :menuselection:`Apps` and search for the
module by its technical name `l10n_cl_edi_website_sale`, and click the :guilabel:`Activate` button.

.. image:: chile/ecommerce-module-chile.png
   :align: center
   :alt: l10n_cl eCommerce module.

This module enables the features and configurations to:

- Generate electronic documents from the *eCommerce* application.
- Support for required fiscal fields in the *eCommerce* application.
- Effectively let the final client decide the electronic document to be generated for their
  purchase.

Once all of the configurations are made for the Chilean :ref:`electronic invoice
<chile/electronic-invoice>` flow, the following configurations are required for the eCommerce flow
to be integrated.

To configure your website to generate electronic documents during the sale process, go to
:menuselection:`Website --> Configuration --> Settings --> Invoicing` and activate the
:guilabel:`Automatic Invoice` feature. Activating this feature allows electronic documents to be

> automatically generated when the online payment is confirmed.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
automatically generated when an online payment is confirmed.
```

.. image:: chile/website-configurations-ecommerce-chile.png
   :align: center
   :alt: Invoice Policy and Automatic Invoice configurations.

Since an online payment needs to be confirmed for the *automatic invoice* feature to generate the
document, a payment provider should be configured for the related website.

.. note::

>    Review the :doc:`../payment_providers` documentation to know which are supported in Odoo and how

Reviewer: ```suggestion
   Review the :doc:`../payment_providers` documentation for information on which payment providers are supported in Odoo, and how
```

   to configure them.

> It is also recommended to configure your products so they are able to be invoiced at the time of an
> online payment confirmation. To do so, go to :menuselection:`Website --> eCommerce --> Products` and

Reviewer: ```suggestion
It is also recommended to configure your products so they are able to be invoiced when an online payment is confirmed. To do so, go to :menuselection:`Website --> eCommerce --> Products` and
```

select the product template of the desired product. Then set the :guilabel:`Invoicing Policy` to
:guilabel:`Ordered quantities`.

.. image:: chile/ordered-quantities-product.png
   :align: center
   :alt: Invoice Policy configuration in Products.

Invoicing flows
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

> Clients from Chile will be able to select if they need an invoice or a ballot for their purchase in

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Clients from Chile will be able to select if they need an invoice or a ballot for their purchase with
```

> an extra step added in the checkout process.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
an extra step added during the checkout process.
```

.. image:: chile/select-edi-docs-ecommerce.png
   :align: center
   :alt: Option for EDI Documents for clients.

If the client selects the :guilabel:`Electronic Invoice` option, fiscal fields will be required to

> be filled; such as the :guilabel:`Activity Description`, the :guilabel:`Identification Number` and

Reviewer: ```suggestion
be filled out; such as the :guilabel:`Activity Description`, the :guilabel:`Identification Number` and
```

their :guilabel:`DTE Email`.

.. image:: chile/fiscal-fields-invoice-ecommerce.png
   :align: center
   :alt: Fiscal fields required for an Invoice to be requested.

If the client selects the :guilabel:`Electronic Receipts` option, they will be directed to the next

> step and the electronic document will be generated for the *Consumidor Final Anónimo* contact.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
step, and the electronic document will be generated for the *Consumidor Final Anónimo* contact.
```

Clients from other countries (not Chile), will have their electronic receipts automatically
generated for them by Odoo.

.. note::
   If a purchase through eCommerce requires an export, the customer will need to contact your
   company to generate an electronic export invoice (*document type 110*), which can be done from
   the *Accounting* app.

Point of Sale electronic invoicing
----------------------------------

> To install the :guilabel:`Chilean Module for Point of Sale` go to :menuselection:`Apps` and search

Reviewer: ```suggestion
To install the :guilabel:`Chilean Module for Point of Sale` go to the :menuselection:`Apps` application on the main Odoo dashboard, and search
```

for the module by its technical name `l10n_cl_edi_pos` and click the :guilabel:`Activate` button.

.. image:: chile/pos-edi-module-chile.png
   :align: center
   :alt: l10n_cl POS EDI module.

This module enables the following features and configurations to:

- Generate electronic documents from the *Point of Sale* application.
- Support for required fiscal fields for contacts created in the *Point of Sale* application.

> - Effectively let the final client decide the type of electronic document to be generated for their

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- Effectively lets the final client decide the type of electronic document to be generated for their
```

  purchase.
- Print QR or 5 digit codes in tickets to access to electronic invoices.

To configure contacts with the required fiscal information, review the :ref:`partner information

> <chile/partner-information>` section, or directly modify a contact from :menuselection:`Point of
> Sale --> Session --> Customers --> Details` to edit:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
<chile/partner-information>` section, or directly modify a contact. Navigate to :menuselection:`Point of
Sale --> Session --> Customers --> Details`, and edit any of the following fields:
```

- :guilabel:`Name`
- :guilabel:`Email`
- :guilabel:`Identification Type`
- :guilabel:`Tax Payer Type`
- :guilabel:`Type Giro`
- :guilabel:`DTE Email`
- :guilabel:`RUT`

.. image:: chile/fiscal-required-pos-session.png
   :align: center
   :alt: Contact with fiscal information created from POS.

To configure the products, navigate to :menuselection:`Point of Sale --> Products --> Products` and

> select a product record. On the :guilabel:`Sales` tab in the product form, it is necessary to mark

Reviewer: ```suggestion
select a product record. In the :guilabel:`Sales` tab of the product form, it is necessary to mark
```

  receipt, allowing the user to request an invoice through the customer portal.

.. image:: chile/qr-code-ticket.png
   :align: center
   :alt: Configuration to generate QR or 5 digit codes on tickets.

Invoicing flows
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

The following sections cover the invoicing flows for the *Point of Sale* application.

Electronic receipts: anonymous end user
***************************************

When making a purchase as an anonymous user that does not request an electronic invoice, Odoo
automatically selects :guilabel:`Consumidor Final Anónimo` as the contact for the order and
generates the electronic receipt.

.. image:: chile/invoice-receipt-selection.png
   :align: center
   :alt: Automatic contact selection of an anonymous end consumer.

.. note::
   If the client requests a credit note due to a return of their purchase, the credit note should be
   made using the *Accounting* app. See the :doc:`credit notes and refunds
   <../accounting/customer_invoices/credit_notes>` documentation for detailed instructions.

Electronic receipts: specific customer
**************************************

> When making a purchase as a specific user that does not request an electronic invoice, Odoo
> automatically selects the contact for the order as the :guilabel:`Consumidor Final Anónimo`, and

Reviewer: ```suggestion
When a specific user making a purchase does not request an electronic invoice, Odoo
automatically selects the contact for the order as the :guilabel:`Consumidor Final Anónimo`, and
```

   :alt: Selection of contact for the receipt.

.. note::
   If the client requests a credit note because of a return of this type of purchase, the credit
   note and return process can be managed directly from the :abbr:`POS (Point of Sale)` session.

Electronic invoices
*******************

When clients request an electronic invoice, it is possible to select or create the required contact
with their fiscal information. When the payment is being made, select the option :guilabel:`Invoice`
to generate the document.

.. image:: chile/invoice-option-at-payment.png
   :align: center
   :alt: Selection of invoice option at payment.

.. note::
   For both the electronic receipts and invoices, if the product is not affected by taxes, Odoo
   detects this and generates the correct type of document for tax exempt sales.

Returns
*******

For electronic receipts (not generated for the *Consumidor Final Anónimo*) and electronic invoices,
it is possible to manage the process to return products sold in a :abbr:`POS (Point of Sale)` order
by selecting the :guilabel:`Refund` button.

.. image:: chile/refund-order.png
   :align: center
   :alt: Refund option in the POS application.

> Orders can be searched by status of the order or by contact and be selected for the refund to be

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Orders can be searched by the order status or contact, and be selected for the refund to be
```

Since an online payment needs to be confirmed for the *automatic invoice* feature to generate the
document, a payment provider should be configured for the related website.

.. note::
   Review the :doc:`../payment_providers` documentation for information on which payment providers
   are supported in Odoo, and how to configure them.

It is also recommended to configure your products so they are able to be invoiced when an online
payment is confirmed. To do so, go to :menuselection:`Website --> eCommerce --> Products` and select
the product template of the desired product. Then set the :guilabel:`Invoicing Policy` to
:guilabel:`Ordered quantities`.

.. image:: chile/ordered-quantities-product.png
   :align: center
   :alt: Invoice Policy configuration in Products.

Invoicing flows
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

Clients from Chile will be able to select if they need an invoice or a ballot for their purchase
with an extra step added during the checkout process.

.. image:: chile/select-edi-docs-ecommerce.png
   :align: center
   :alt: Option for EDI Documents for clients.

If the client selects the :guilabel:`Electronic Invoice` option, fiscal fields will be required to

> be filled out; such as the :guilabel:`Activity Description`, the :guilabel:`Identification Number`
> and their :guilabel:`DTE Email`.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
be filled out, including the :guilabel:`Activity Description`, the :guilabel:`Identification Number`
and their :guilabel:`DTE Email`.
```

.. image:: chile/fiscal-fields-invoice-ecommerce.png
   :align: center
   :alt: Fiscal fields required for an Invoice to be requested.

If the client selects the :guilabel:`Electronic Receipts` option, they will be directed to the next
step, and the electronic document will be generated for the *Consumidor Final Anónimo* contact.

> Clients from other countries (not Chile), will have their electronic receipts automatically

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Clients from countries other than Chile will have their electronic receipts automatically
```

generated for them by Odoo.

.. note::
   If a purchase through eCommerce requires an export, the customer will need to contact your
   company to generate an electronic export invoice (*document type 110*), which can be done from
   the *Accounting* app.

Point of Sale electronic invoicing
----------------------------------

To install the :guilabel:`Chilean Module for Point of Sale` go to the :menuselection:`Apps`
application on the main Odoo dashboard, and search for the module by its technical name
`l10n_cl_edi_pos` and click the :guilabel:`Activate` button.

.. image:: chile/pos-edi-module-chile.png
   :align: center
   :alt: l10n_cl POS EDI module.

This module enables the following features and configurations to:

- Generate electronic documents from the *Point of Sale* application.

> - Support for required fiscal fields for contacts created in the *Point of Sale* application.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
- Support the required fiscal fields for contacts created in the *Point of Sale* application.
```
